docs/gdrive_configurations.md, before:

# Google Drive API configuration

This section aims to explain how to enable Google Drive API and configure OAuth 2.0 credentials to use with ml-git.

#### Enabling Drive API

You need to create a project in Google developer console to activate Drive API, follow instructions bellow:

**1. Access [console developer](https://console.developers.google.com/) and click on create project:**

![create_project](drive_api_pic/start_screen.png)

**2. Then type name of your preference and click on "CREATE" button:**

![project_name](drive_api_pic/create_project_screen.png)

**3. Go back to dashboard and enable Drive API:**


![enable_api](drive_api_pic/enable_api.png)

**4. Search for Drive API on search bar:**

![search_bar](drive_api_pic/search_api_bar.png)

![search_bar](drive_api_pic/enable_api_buttom.png)

#### Creating credentials

When you finish Enabling API step, you need to create your credentials and configure authentication consent screen.

**1. Click on create credentials:**

![select_credentials_type](drive_api_pic/select_credentials_api.png)

![cosent_screen](drive_api_pic/consent_screen.png)


**2. Select user type of your consent:**

![consent_user_type](drive_api_pic/consent_user_type.png)

**3. Add application name to authentication consent screen:**

![app_name_consent](drive_api_pic/consent_app_name.png)

**4. Change application's scope if you prefer and save:**

![consent_save](drive_api_pic/consent_save.png)

**5. Go back to dashboard and click on create credentials and generate your API KEY:**

![create_credentials](drive_api_pic/create_credentials_screen.png)

![api_key](drive_api_pic/create_api_key.png)

**6. Generate OAuth client id:**

![oauth_client_id](drive_api_pic/create_oauth_client_id.png)

**7. Add client name and select application type:**

![select_app_type](drive_api_pic/select_other_oauth_client.png)

**8. Finally you can download your credentials file:**

![dash_board_download_credentials.json](drive_api_pic/download_credentials_json.png)

# Setting up a ml-git project with Google Drive #

Inside ml-git project, create **.credentials** directory and copy here your credentials  file created before with name **credentials.json**.

Add store configurations:

```
$ ml-git store add path-in-your-drive --type=gdriveh --credentials=.credentials
```

After that initialize the metadata repository:

```
$ ml-git dataset init
```

Commit message:

Improving gdrive messages shown during tests execution

docs/gdrive_configurations.md, after:

# Google Drive API configuration

This section aims to explain how to enable Google Drive API and configure OAuth 2.0 credentials to use with ml-git.

#### Enabling Drive API

You need to create a project in Google developer console to activate Drive API, follow instructions bellow:

**1. Access [console developer](https://console.developers.google.com/) and click on create project:**

![create_project](drive_api_pic/start_screen.png)

**2. Then type name of your preference and click on "CREATE" button:**

![project_name](drive_api_pic/create_project_screen.png)

**3. Go back to dashboard and enable Drive API:**


![enable_api](drive_api_pic/enable_api.png)

**4. Search for Drive API on search bar:**

![search_bar](drive_api_pic/search_api_bar.png)

![search_bar](drive_api_pic/enable_api_buttom.png)

#### Creating credentials

When you finish Enabling API step, you need to create your credentials and configure authentication consent screen.

**1. Click on create credentials:**

![select_credentials_type](drive_api_pic/select_credentials_api.png)

![cosent_screen](drive_api_pic/consent_screen.png)


**2. Select user type of your consent:**

![consent_user_type](drive_api_pic/consent_user_type.png)

**3. Add application name to authentication consent screen:**

![app_name_consent](drive_api_pic/consent_app_name.png)

**4. Change application's scope if you prefer and save:**

![consent_save](drive_api_pic/consent_save.png)

**5. Go back to dashboard and click on create credentials and generate your API KEY:**

![create_credentials](drive_api_pic/create_credentials_screen.png)

![api_key](drive_api_pic/create_api_key.png)

**6. Generate OAuth client id:**

![oauth_client_id](drive_api_pic/create_oauth_client_id.png)

**7. Add client name and select application type:**

![select_app_type](drive_api_pic/select_other_oauth_client.png)

**8. Finally you can download your credentials file:**

![dash_board_download_credentials.json](drive_api_pic/download_credentials_json.png)

# Setting up a ml-git project with Google Drive #

Create directory with name  of your preference and copy your credentials  file with name **credentials.json** inside the directory.

Add store configurations example:

```
$ ml-git store add path-in-your-drive --type=gdriveh --credentials=/home/profile/.gdrive
```

After that initialize the metadata repository:

```
$ ml-git dataset init
```
